The Truth Machine by Norman Whitney, a Heinemann guided reader at beginner level.
Copyright Heinemann International, first recorded 1982, this edition 1992.
Chapter 1 Success for Professor Verity
Success, cried Professor Verity.
My new invention is ready.
It is now complete.
I shall call it the Truth Machine.
The professor ran to the telephone and phoned the newspaper office.
He told them about the Truth Machine.
Come to my laboratory, he said.
You will see my new invention.
I call it the Truth Machine.
Please give us your name and address, said the girl at the newspaper office.
We'll send a reporter immediately.
The professor gave the girl his name and address.
Will the reporter be here soon, he asked?
Yes, of course, replied the girl.
Good, said Professor Verity.
He smiled, he waited.
The reporter soon arrived at the laboratory.
Who can use the Truth Machine, Professor?
He asked.
Anybody can use it, replied Professor Verity.
But how does the machine work?
Asked the reporter.
The professor laughed.
That's the secret, he said.
But I can tell you this.
The questioner sits in the little chair, eyes sit at the controls,
and the Truth speaker sits in the big chair.
The Truth speaker always speaks the truth.
He cannot tell lies.
The professor smiled.
Why did you make the Truth Machine?
Asked the reporter.
I love Truth, said Professor Verity, and I hate lies.
I love good people, and I hate bad people.
I love peace, and I hate war.
The Truth Machine loves Truth, good people, and peace.
It hates lies, bad people, and war.
The reporter wrote all this in his notebook.
Soon everybody will know about the Truth Machine, said the professor.
It will be a success.
The reporter thanked the professor, and hurried back to his newspaper office.
Professor Verity was right.
Soon millions of people knew about the Truth Machine.
The professor was on the radio.
He was on the television, too.
All over the world, newspapers and magazines wrote about Professor Verity and the Truth
Machine.
Many people wrote to Professor Verity.
Rich people, poor people, young people, old people, everybody sent letters.
The Truth Machine was a success.
Thank you, wrote one woman.
Wonderful, wrote another.
Good luck, wrote one man.
I am sending you some money.
It will help your work.
Many people sent money.
Some sent coins, others sent banknotes, and others sent checks and money orders.
Then the professor chose his first clients.
He read his letters many times.
First, he chose a hundred letters.
Then he chose fifty of them.
Then he chose ten names.
Finally, he chose three people.
This is Seeker from Australia, Inspector Sack from South America, and Dr. Simple from
the United States.
Professor Verity wrote to them, Please come and see me, he wrote.
You will be one of my first clients.
Chapter 2.
Three visitors for Professor Verity.
Two weeks later, Professor Verity had a visitor.
It was Mrs. Seeker.
She was from Australia.
She was a housewife.
She was afraid.
Can I help you, Mrs. Seeker?
Ask the professor.
Yes, Mrs. Seeker replied.
I wrote to you about the truth machine.
I know, said the professor.
You will be my first client.
Don't be afraid.
Oh, said Mrs. Seeker.
I will not be your first client, Professor.
Your first client will be my husband.
Your husband, said Professor Verity.
The professor was surprised.
But your husband didn't write to me.
No, he didn't, said Mrs. Seeker.
I wrote to you.
But what do you want?
Ask the professor.
Why are you here?
Well, said Mrs. Seeker.
My husband, Mrs. Seeker, stopped.
She was crying.
She was unhappy.
My husband as Mrs. Seeker stopped again.
She was crying again.
Oh, said the professor quietly.
Your husband has another woman.
Yes, yes.
Pride, Mrs. Seeker.
But I don't know.
Oh, I hate lies.
I want the truth, Professor.
I want the truth from my husband.
But will he come here?
Ask the professor.
Oh, yes, he'll come.
Said Mrs. Seeker.
Well, bring him to my laboratory, said the professor.
I'll help you, Mrs. Seeker.
Of course, there will be a small charge, a fee.
I'll pay anything, said Mrs. Seeker.
I hate lies.
I want the truth from my husband.
Come here next Monday morning, said the professor.
Everything will be ready.
The next visitor was Inspector Sack.
He was from South America.
He was a policeman, and he had a gun.
Hello, Professor!
Said the inspector.
The inspector had a loud voice.
Where is it, Professor?
He shouted.
Where is the truth machine?
It's here, Inspector, said Professor Verity quietly.
You will be one of my first clients.
All good, said the inspector.
Inspector Sack walked up and down.
Then he stopped.
He looked at the professor.
Crime, shouted Inspector Sack.
Crime, crime, crime.
Crime, asked the professor in a soft voice.
Yes, crime, shouted Inspector Sack.
I hate criminals.
Murderers are criminals.
They kill people.
I hate murderers.
Thieves are criminals.
They take things from people.
I hate thieves.
And liars are criminals.
They tell lies.
I hate lies, Professor.
I hate all criminals.
But the truth machine will fight criminals,
said Professor Verity quietly.
There will be no more murderers and thieves.
There will be no more lies and no more crime, Inspector.
No more criminals and no more crime, shouted Inspector Sack.
Excellent.
Bring your criminals to me, Inspector, said the professor.
Of course, there will be a small charge, a fee.
Money?
Shouted Inspector Sack.
You shall have money, Professor.
We are fighting crime, my friend.
Of course, you shall have money.
Thank you, Inspector, said Professor Verity.
Thank you.
Come here next Monday afternoon.
Bring your criminals to me.
Everything will be ready.
Good morning, Professor Verity.
My name is Dr. Simple.
Dr. Simple was the third visitor.
He was from the United States.
He was a government official.
He worked for the American government.
Hello, Dr. Simple, said the professor.
You will be one of my first clients.
I know, said Dr. Simple.
I will be your third client.
The other two are Mrs. Seeker and Inspector Sack.
Hello, said the professor.
How do you know their names?
Dr. Simple looked round.
Spies, Professor Verity, said Dr. Simple quietly.
Spies.
Spies, asked Professor Verity.
But Mrs. Seeker and Inspector Sack aren't spies.
Of course, they are not spies, said Dr. Simple.
He looked round.
But I am.
Oh, you are a spy, the professor asked.
Yes, said Dr. Simple.
I'm a spy.
He looked round.
He was looking for enemy spies.
I fight for peace, said Dr. Simple.
Professor Verity is smiled.
Oh, I want peace too, the professor said.
I know, said Dr. Simple.
He smiled.
You will help me, Professor.
We have caught an enemy spy.
He will not tell the truth.
I will bring him here.
I will be the questioner.
He will be the truth speaker.
Yes, said the professor.
Please bring him here.
Of course, Dr. Simple, there will be a small charge, a fee.
Dr. Simple smiled.
He looked round again.
Of course, Professor, here is some money.
Dr. Simple gave the professor a lot of money.
Thank you, said the professor quietly.
He looked round too.
Come here with your spy next Monday evening.
Everything will be ready.
CHAPTER 3
MONDAY A BUSY DAY FOR PROFESSOR Verity
It was Monday morning.
Mrs. Seeker came to the laboratory.
Mr. Seeker came too.
How are you, Professor?
Said Mr. Seeker.
Where is your truth, machine?
Mr. Seeker laughed.
Don't laugh, said his wife.
She was afraid.
Listen to the professor.
Professor Verity spoke.
Mrs. Seeker, you are the questioner.
Sit in the small chair.
Mr. Seeker, you are the truth speaker.
Sit in the big chair.
Mr. and Mrs. Seeker sat in their chairs.
Mrs. Seeker looked at the professor.
What shall I say?
She asked.
Ask your husband some easy questions, said the professor.
She looked at her husband.
What is your name?
She asked.
My name is Henry, said her husband.
That was an easy question.
He laughed.
How old are you, Henry?
Asked Mrs. Seeker.
I'm 47, said Mr. Seeker.
Mrs. Seeker looked at Professor Verity.
She smiled.
That's the truth, she said.
He usually says 43.
My husband is telling the truth.
Good, said Professor Verity.
Now ask your husband some difficult questions.
Mrs. Seeker was afraid, but she spoke.
Are you married?
She asked.
Of course I'm married.
Replied, Mr. Seeker.
You're my wife.
He was angry.
But do you love me?
Asked Mrs. Seeker.
Mr. Seeker looked at his wife.
She waited.
Now, he said slowly.
Now, I don't love you.
I'll have another woman.
Oh, said Mrs. Seeker.
Who do you love?
Tell me the truth.
I hate lies.
Who do you love?
Mrs. Seeker was crying.
Mr. Seeker looked at his wife.
I love anelyate.
I love anelyate, he said.
Oh, anelyate.
But she's my best friend.
Now you know the truth.
Yes, that's the truth.
What shall I do now?
Inspector Sack came to the laboratory on Monday afternoon.
His boss, the chief inspector, came too.
They brought some criminals with them.
Good afternoon, professor.
Shouted Inspector Sack.
This is my boss, the chief inspector.
And these are the criminals.
They are murderers.
They are thieves.
And they are liars.
But today, said Professor Verity, they will tell the truth.
Shall we begin?
Said the chief inspector quietly.
Yes, let's begin.
Come on.
Shouted Inspector Sack.
Inspector Sack sat in the questioner's chair.
The first criminal sat in the truth speaker's chair.
Inspector Sack spoke.
Did you take money from the car of Senor Cavallio?
He asked.
Yes, I took the money.
Said the criminal.
Guilty.
Shouted Inspector Sack.
Five years in prison.
Next criminal.
The next criminal sat in the truth speaker's chair.
Did you take diamonds from the house of Senorita Regia?
Asked Inspector Sack.
Yes, I did.
Said the criminal.
Guilty.
Shouted the inspector.
Ten years in prison.
Next criminal.
The next criminal came in.
He sat in the truth speaker's chair.
Did you kill Senor Regia?
Asked Inspector Sack.
The criminal was silent.
Then he spoke.
Yes, I did.
He said.
That was the truth.
Guilty.
Shouted Inspector Sack.
Twenty years.
Next.
All the criminals sat in the truth speaker's chair.
They all told the truth.
One of them was innocent.
You are not guilty.
Said Inspector Sack.
You can go home.
Inspector Sack was pleased.
Professor Verity was pleased.
The Chief Inspector was pleased.
Good work, Sack.
Said the Chief Inspector.
Very good work.
Thank you, sir.
Said Inspector Sack.
We are fighting crime, sir.
The throat machine is helping us.
There are no more criminals for us, sir.
Inspector Sack smiled.
He was happy.
Yes, Inspector Sack.
No more criminals.
No more work.
No more work for me, sir.
Yes.
We don't need you now, Inspector Sack.
I haven't got a job.
What shall I do now?
It was Monday evening.
Doctor Simple came to the laboratory.
Another man came with him.
The other man was a spy.
Good evening, Professor.
Said Doctor Simple.
Good evening, Doctor Simple.
Said the Professor.
Everything is ready.
Good, said Doctor Simple.
This spy is dangerous.
He is an enemy.
I will be his questioner.
He will be the truth speaker.
He will tell the truth.
The Professor went to the controls.
Doctor Simple sat in the questioner's chair.
The spy sat in the truth speaker's chair.
What is your name?
Asked Doctor Simple.
My name is Horaville Wein.
Said the spy.
Where are you from?
Asked Doctor Simple.
I am from Russia.
Said the spy.
The spy smiled.
Doctor Simple looked at the Professor.
Doctor Simple was pleased.
Excellent, Professor Verity.
Said Doctor Simple.
Lime is telling the truth.
He will tell me everything.
Professor Verity was happy.
Doctor Simple looked at Lime.
Are you a spy?
He asked.
Yes, I am a spy.
I am an important spy.
Said Lime.
Do you know the secret of the new military aircraft?
He asked.
How the lime smiled.
Yes, he said.
I know the secret of the new military aircraft.
And my government knows too.
Ahh!
Cried Doctor Simple.
The truth machine is wonderful.
The spy is telling me everything.
But I have another secret.
Said Lime.
He looked at Doctor Simple.
He looked at Professor Verity.
Another secret.
Cried Doctor Simple.
Tell me, tell me, tell me the truth.
My secret is this.
Said Harvey Lime.
I never tell the truth.
I always tell lies.
He smiled.
What do you mean?
That's the truth.
I always tell lies.
Is Lime telling the truth?
Or is he lying?
What do you mean?
Chapter 4.
Tuesday.
An important meeting.
There was a hotel near the laboratory.
Mrs. Seeker was staying there.
Inspector Sack and Doctor Simple were staying there too.
Mrs. Seeker, Inspector Sack and Doctor Simple were eating breakfast together.
I know the truth about my husband.
Now I am very unhappy.
Said Mrs. Seeker.
I know the truth about my criminals.
Now I haven't got a job.
Said Inspector Sack.
I know the truth about my spy.
What shall I do now?
Said Doctor Simple.
Mrs. Seeker was crying.
I don't like the truth, machine.
She said.
Inspector Sack and Doctor Simple agreed with her.
Inspector Sack shouted in a loud voice.
We paid the professor a lot of money.
He said.
Mrs. Seeker and Doctor Simple agreed with him.
Doctor Simple spoke quietly and slowly.
Professor Verity is a criminal.
He said.
Mrs. Seeker and Inspector Sack agreed with him.
I'm going to say Professor Verity.
Said Mrs. Seeker.
I shall come with you.
Shouted Inspector Sack.
A good idea.
Said Doctor Simple slowly.
I shall come too.
Mrs. Seeker, Inspector Sack and Doctor Simple left the hotel.
They wanted to see Professor Verity.
They went to the laboratory.
I shall come with you.
Chapter 5.
At the laboratory again.
Soon Mrs. Seeker, Inspector Sack and Doctor Simple were at the laboratory.
Oh, I hate you, Professor Verity.
Cried Mrs. Seeker.
I want my money back, Professor.
Shouted Inspector Sack.
You're a criminal, Verity.
Said Doctor Simple.
Professor Verity looked at his first three clients.
Fools, he said.
You are fools.
You wanted the truth.
I gave you the truth.
The truth machine gave you the truth.
Truth?
Said Mrs. Seeker.
But now I am unhappy.
Throws?
Shouted Inspector Sack.
But now I haven't got a job.
Truth?
Said Doctor Simple.
But what is the truth?
What is the truth?
Said Professor Verity.
Let me tell you.
Mrs. Seeker, you hate lies and I gave you the truth.
Your husband loves Anne Elliot.
That is the truth.
Inspector, the professor went on.
You hate crime.
I put your criminals in prison.
That is the truth.
Simple.
Said the professor.
You fight for peace.
I helped you.
That is the truth.
The professor stopped.
Then he spoke again.
Fools, he said.
Go home.
Do you really hate lies, Professor Verity?
Asked Mrs. Seeker.
Do you really hate crime, Professor?
Shouted Inspector Sack.
And do you really fight for peace?
Asked Doctor Simple.
Yes, yes, yes.
Cried Professor Verity.
That's the truth.
Then Doctor Simple spoke.
We shall see.
He said.
Professor Verity will be the truth speaker.
Why did you invent the truth machine?
Success.
I want success.
What do you really want?
Money.
I want money.
What do you really want?
Power.
I want power.
You don't hate lies, Professor Verity.
You want success?
Said Mrs. Seeker.
You don't hate crime, Professor.
You want money.
Shouted Inspector Sack.
You don't want peace, Verity.
You want power.
Said Doctor Simple.
Yes.
Laugh, Professor Verity.
You fools.
You gave me success.
You gave me money.
You gave me power.
Now I am successful, rich, and powerful.
And that is the truth.
Everybody was quiet.
Then Inspector Sack took out his gun.
Mrs. Seeker screamed.
Inspector Sack shot Professor Verity.
And Doctor Simple destroyed the truth machine.
The truth machine was read by Stephen Pacey.
And the recording produced by James Richardson at Studio AVP London.
End of Side One.
The Sky's the Limit by Norman Whitney.
A Heinemann guided reader at beginner level.
Copyright Heinemann International.
First recorded 1982.
This edition 1992.
Chapter One.
A new start for Max.
Max Price was a happy man.
He loved his wife Angela and his two children, Stephen and Juliet.
Max and his family lived in a small, pleasant flat.
They had many good friends and kind neighbors.
Yes, the Price family was a happy family.
But one day Max lost his job.
The bad news came in a letter.
The letter was short and clear.
Max became very worried.
What shall I do now?
He said to his wife.
I don't know, Max.
I don't know, replied Angela.
She was very worried too.
Then Max became angry.
Look at this letter, he said.
They send me best wishes.
I don't want best wishes.
I want a job.
I've got a wife and family.
Don't worry, Max, said Angela.
Everything will be all right.
But who will give me a job now, Angela?
I'm 37.
And today, 37 is old.
What are we going to do?
Let's ask our friends and neighbors, said Angela.
But they got no help from their friends and neighbors.
Many people were looking for jobs.
Life was difficult for everybody.
Every morning, Max looked for a new job.
Every afternoon, he came home without one.
And every evening, he waited for the newspaper.
Will there be a job tonight?
Jobs, situations vacant, 12 to 14.
Nothing here again.
Angela, look at this.
The sky's the limit.
Join our new company and go to the top.
Friendly people, good salaries,
jobs for men and women of all ages,
the star building, city center.
Interviews every morning at nine.
Mr. Lele, personnel manager,
friendship services international,
star building, city center.
Friendship services international.
It's a new company, said Max.
What do you think, Angela?
Go and see them.
They need new people, men and women, and all ages, too.
Yes, said Max.
The star building.
That's the new skyscraper in the city center.
It's a big company, Angela.
Very big.
You can go in the morning, said Angela.
I will, said Max.
He was excited.
I'll be there early.
I'll be there at seven o'clock.
I'll get a job, Angela.
Don't worry.
Early next morning, Max was at the star building.
At nine o'clock, he had an interview
with three men from friendship services international.
What was your last job?
Ask Mr. Lele, the personnel manager.
I sold furniture.
We don't need furniture salesmen here, said the second man, Mr. Crepe.
But I'll learn a new job, said Max quickly.
I'll work hard.
Good.
Said the third man, Mr. High Tower.
We need new men, and we need hard workers.
Mr. Price, said Max quickly.
Very good, Price.
Said Mr. High Tower.
Be here tomorrow at eight thirty.
We were now working for friendship services international.
Now Max had a job.
He ran home and told Angela the good news.
This was a new start for Max.
Chapter two, the ground floor.
The next day, Max went to his new job.
His office was on the ground floor of the star building.
Many new people started work that day.
One of them was Frank Stedman.
He became Max's friend.
Their office was large and busy, but everybody was very friendly.
Max and Frank liked everybody, and they did their work well.
I like it here, Max, said Frank one day.
We've got good jobs at friendship services international.
Yes, said Max.
I like it here too.
So the two men were very happy.
Every lunchtime they had drinks and sandwiches with their new friends.
In the evenings they went to parties with them.
Max and Frank often took their wives and children to the parties.
Max was pleased.
And Angela was pleased too.
Max now had a good salary.
So he and Angela bought lots of new furniture for their flat.
They bought a color television, a hi-fi, and many other things.
Angela bought some new clothes.
Angela bought some new clothes, and the children had lots of new toys.
The Price family was happy again.
You're rich, said Angela, one day to Max.
Max laughed.
No, not yet Angela, he said.
But perhaps I'll be rich one day.
Let's drink to your new job, said Angela.
Yes, agreed Max.
Let's drink to my new employer.
Let's drink to Friendship Services International.
Cheers, Angela.
Cheers, Max, said Angela.
The work at Friendship Services International was hard.
Every day Max and Frank received lots of letters.
These letters wanted FSI products.
But FSI products had no names.
They only had numbers and letters.
X3Ys, L7Ks, A5Qs.
What did these strange numbers and letters mean?
Max and Frank did not know.
Each day they opened hundreds of these orders.
They put the orders into groups.
One group for X products, one group for L products,
and one group for A products.
The orders came from all over the world.
Some of the orders were very big.
We're working very hard, said Max, to Frank one day.
Yes, replied Frank.
Letters, letters, letters, hundreds of them.
What do they mean, Max?
What do they want?
What are they asking for?
I don't know, said Max.
Don't ask so many questions, Frank.
Okay, said Frank.
Okay.
Later that day, a memo came from their boss, Mr. B. Creep.
Confidential.
Date July 1st from B. Creep.
2, M price and F. Stedman.
Please see me now in my office, 5th floor.
Copy to M high tower.
Please sit down, gentlemen.
I have some news for you.
We like your work.
You'll be coming up to the 5th floor.
Well done, Frank.
Well done, Max.
Chapter 3.
The 5th floor.
Max and Frank now worked on the 5th floor.
There were two other men and one secretary in their new office.
The office was quiet.
Its furniture was modern and expensive.
The secretary had a dictaphone and an electric typewriter.
The four men had large desks.
One day, Max and Frank looked down on the street below.
There was a lot of noise and traffic in the street.
Max and Frank remembered their friends on the ground floor.
They were good friends, said Frank.
Yes, said Max, but now we've got new friends on the 5th floor.
But remember the parties and the friendship on the ground floor, said Frank?
Yes, said Max, but Frank, the salaries on the 5th floor are better.
Max now had more money.
Let's buy a new house, he said to Angela.
But I like it here, said Angela.
And the children like it here too.
But Angela, said Max, I now work on the 5th floor at Friendship Services International.
My salary is bigger.
5th floor people don't live in flats.
They live in houses.
But Max said Angela.
All our friends live here.
And the children go to school here.
And our flat is lovely now.
Max became angry.
We are going to move, Angela.
We are going to move next week.
All right, said Angela.
She smiled, but she was unhappy.
The next week, Max and Angela moved to a new house.
But Frank's dead man and his wife did not move.
We like our flat, said Frank.
All our friends are near us.
And the children like their school.
No, I shall not move, Max.
Max said nothing.
Max and Frank worked hard in their 5th floor office.
They received orders to Friendship Services International and priced them.
For example, there was an order for 5,000 M5Bs.
The prices were in a book.
1M5B cost $10.
So 5,000 M5Bs cost 5,000 times 10 equals $50,000.
But Max and Frank still did not understand M5B.
What's an M5B, asked Frank?
I don't know, said Max.
Now their boss was Mr. M. Heitauer.
His office was on the 10th floor of the star building.
He came down every day at 5 o'clock and spoke to Max and Frank.
Your work is excellent, gentlemen.
Said Mr. Heitauer one day, excellent.
Thank you, Mr. Heitauer, said Max.
Call me Mort, please.
Said Mr. Heitauer.
Thank you, Mort.
I will, said Max.
But Frank said nothing.
One day, Mr. Heitauer came down early.
Max and Frank were alone in their office.
Anything wrong, Mort?
Asked Max?
No, nothing is wrong.
Good news, gentlemen.
We are going to open a new department on the 10th floor.
And you will be the bosses.
Thanks, Mort. That's great news.
Chapter 4.
Higher and higher.
The 10th floor office was large and comfortable.
Max and Frank were the only two men in it.
They had large desks and large telephones.
There was a secretary, too.
She also had a large desk.
One morning, Max and Frank looked down on the city below.
It was a long way.
The people and the cars were very small.
It's very high, Frank, said Max.
I like it up here.
It's too high, Max, said Frank.
I liked it on the ground floor.
There's too much work up here.
But we must work, said Max.
This is Friendship Services International.
It's a good company.
We must work.
Max worked very hard.
He often worked late in the office.
One evening, Max came home early.
Angela was pleased.
Hello, Max.
You're early tonight.
I'm cooking your favorite meal.
I'm sorry, Angela, said Max.
I must go out again in a few minutes.
I've got an important business dinner.
Oh, please stay, said Angela.
I don't see you a lot these days.
And the children don't see you at all.
I'm sorry, Angela, said Max, but it's an important dinner.
I must go.
Goodbye.
Goodbye, Max.
Good luck.
Oh, Max thought Angela to herself.
You are becoming a different man.
And the children don't know you now.
You are a stranger in our home.
It was a very important business dinner.
Max and Frank were there.
They met many foreign customers of Friendship Services International.
But Mort Heitauer wasn't at the dinner.
Where's Heitauer tonight?
Asked Frank.
Mort?
I don't know, said Max.
He wasn't well this morning.
What's the office early?
Max and Frank talked to the dinner guests.
They came from all over the world.
They were rich.
They ate and drank a lot.
We like Friendship Services International, said an African guest.
Oh, yes.
Your products are very good, said an Asian guest.
Then Max asked a question.
He spoke to an American guest.
Excuse me, he said.
Yes, said the American.
I've read your letters to FSI, said Max.
I've seen your orders.
For example, you ordered 300 S6Ts.
That's right, said the American.
300 S6Ts.
They were excellent.
But what is S6T, asked Max?
What your orders mean?
I don't understand them.
The American laughed.
Oh, our orders.
Don't worry.
He said, you'll earn one day.
But not now, Max.
The other guests laughed too.
Max and Frank were going to ask another question.
But at that moment, there was an urgent message for Max.
From FSI headquarters.
High tower dead.
Move to his job tomorrow.
Fifteenth floor.
I've got Mort's job, Frank.
I'm on the fifteenth floor.
Oh, Max.
Be careful.
Chapter five.
An important man.
The office on the fifteenth floor had every modern office machine.
There was also a beautiful carpet on the floor and modern paintings on the walls.
Max didn't like the paintings, but they were expensive.
That pleased Max.
From the window, Max looked out at the other skyscrapers in the city.
Yes, thought Max.
I'm an important man now.
I'm rising higher in FSI.
I'm rising higher in the star building.
And I've got a beautiful secretary.
It was true.
Max's secretary was called Donna Lot.
She was beautiful.
She liked Max, and Max liked her.
They did a lot of work together.
Max and Donna often worked late.
Sometimes they went to restaurants after work.
One evening, Max telephoned Angela from a restaurant.
Hello, Angela Darling, he said.
It's Max here.
Max said Angela.
Where are you?
We're waiting for you.
It's nine o'clock.
I'm in the office, said Max.
I'm working late.
But Max said Angela.
It's Steven's birthday.
He's waiting for you.
Oh, said Max.
I forgot.
I'm sorry, Angela.
I'll see him tomorrow.
Tomorrow, Max, said Angela.
Tomorrow?
Oh, Max.
Your work is more important to you than your home.
Angela was angry.
She put the phone down.
Max rang her again.
But Angela did not answer.
Max did not see his son the next day.
He went to work early.
There were many letters for him.
Max and Donna worked hard.
Do you understand these letters?
Max asked Donna.
What do you mean, Max?
She replied.
Do you understand these orders, said Max?
What is a B5R?
What is a G9Q?
Do you know?
Donna spoke slowly.
They're secret things, she said.
I know, said Max.
But why are they secret?
I don't know, Max, said Donna.
Then she smiled.
But you can find out.
How? asked Max.
How can I find out?
You can become a director of the company, said Donna.
Max laughed.
Me? Max Price?
A director of Friendship Services International?
It's impossible.
It isn't impossible, said Donna.
I can help you.
You said Max?
He was surprised.
How can you help me?
I have a cousin.
He is a director of FSI.
But will he help me, Donna?
Yes, of course he'll help you, Max.
You'll be a director too.
Thanks, Donna.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you very much.
They were talking about sales and profits.
X-5B's are selling well, said one man.
And we're making good profits on V3Q's, said another man.
Max looked at his papers.
See, seven T's are selling well, he said.
And we're making good profits on U-8Ds.
said somebody. Thank you, Mr. Price!"
Everybody smiled at Max. Max smiled at everybody. But Max still did not understand. C-7-T's
and U-8-D's were selling well, but what were they? Max didn't know.
Now Max was very busy. He always arrived home very late. One evening he arrived home
about midnight. He was very tired. But Angela and the children were not there. Max looked
in all the rooms. There was nobody.
"'Angela!' shouted Max. "'Where are you? Stephen! Juliet! Where are you? I'm home! It's
daddy!'
But there was no answer. Max went into the bedroom again. Then he found a letter. It
was on the bed. Max looked at the envelope. Suddenly he felt sad. Suddenly he knew. He
opened the envelope and read the letter.
"'Yes, it was from Angela.'
"'Dear Max, I'm going away with the children. Goodbye, Max. We will think of you. Goodbye.
All my love, Angela. P.S. Good luck on the board of directors."
Now Max had no family. He was sad and lonely. So he traveled. He traveled for friendship
services international. He traveled all over the five continents. Europe, Africa, Asia,
America, Australia. Max was very good at his work. His customers liked him.
Max took letters and papers to each customer. Many of the customers were scientists. The
papers were top secret. Max did not understand them. He was not a scientist. He showed the
papers to customers in many foreign countries. The customers read the documents. Then they
made decisions. For example, one African scientist said,
"'Thank you, Mr. Price. Thank you for the papers. They are very interesting. I shall
order 15 S3Bs and 400 M2Gs.'" So Max was very popular with the other directors.
"'Excellent work, Max,' said the finance director one day. "'Yes, excellent,' said the
company's vice-chairman. "'We have a surprise for you, Max. You are now the new chairman of FSI.'"
Me? The chairman of FSI?
Chapter 7. The Sky is the Limit. Now Max was the chairman of Friendship Services International.
Now he was at the top of the star building. His office was on the 25th floor. It was a very
strange office. It was a very large white room. There was a big desk and one chair. On the desk
there were two telephones. One telephone had the letter M on it. The other telephone had the
letter W. Max said to himself, "'What are these phones for?' But he did not know. There was a
very large window in the office. From the window Max looked out at the clear blue sky. He remembered
the Friendship Services International advertisement. The sky is the limit. He remembered the interview
with Mr. Lele, Mr. Creep, and Mort Hightower. Then he thought about Frank Stedman.
"'Where's Frank now?' Max thought. But Max did not know. And Max remembered his wife Angela and his
children Stephen and Juliet. They never came back. Every evening Max went home to an empty house. But
now his beautiful home was dirty. Nobody visited Max. He had no friends. He was alone. He was unhappy.
Every evening Max wrote a letter. Every letter was the same.
"'My darling Angela, please come home. I need you. I love you. Please bring the children. I love
them too. Where are you Angela? Please come home. All my love, Max. Max put each letter into an envelope.
On every envelope Max wrote, "'To my darling Angela. Now there were nearly a hundred letters.
They were all the same.'" Max was chairman of FSI, but he had no work. Every day he came to his office.
But every day there was no work. One morning he found a large book on his desk.
"'What's this?" he asked himself.
At that moment the M telephone rang. Max picked it up.
A voice said, "'Send us five hundred N-five B's immediately. He will find details in the catalog."
"'But who are you?" asked Max. "'And what are N-five B's?'" Max waited, but there was no answer.
The W telephone rang. Max picked it up. Another voice said,
"'Send us five hundred N-five B's immediately. You will find details in the catalog.'"
"'But who are you?" Max asked again. "'And what are N-five B's?'"
Again Max waited, but there was no answer. He was now frightened.
"'Who is M?' said Max. "'And who is W? And N-five B? What is N-five B?'"
Max picked up the catalog on his desk. He opened it at N.
"'N-five B. N-nuclear. Five, missile. B, star blast. General information. One, for land,
sea, or air. Two, instant kill.'"
"'Oh, no. I'm selling missiles. Guns. Bombs.'"
"'I didn't know. I didn't know. What shall I do?'"
"'The sky. The sky.'"
The Skies the Limit was read by Peter Whitman and the recording produced by James Richardson at
Studio AVP London.